However, this is not a closed system,
right?
This is a system that's all about
the user actions that come along.
And so along come our user actions.
I've not missed anything, have I?
No, yeah, okay, perfect,
user actions come along, user actions.
And our first user action is,
let's say again, forgive me for being so
over the top here but one minute.
And it's going to be clicking on input,
clicking on input, which will, which will.
Flash a little smile at the camera there,
[LAUGH] which will send
an event to the click.
Sorry, to the click handler here saying,
please place this handleclick function,
or at least the reference to its
position in JavaScript memory in
the queue of functions to be executed.
And that's where it'll first go,
handleclick at
around one minute will appear
in this callback queue.
At around one minute,
let's put in the one minute as well so
we know it's there at one minute.
Okay, and now the event loop.
Well, you tell me, Alexa, what's
happening here as a specialist in acing,
what's happening here?
>> Well, first, the event loop checks
if all our global code is-
>> Uh-huh.
>> Done running.
>> Sorry, so
let's make sure our global
execution context is there, yep.
>> And if the call stack is empty,
which it is.
>> Which it is cuz we're at
about one minute here, exactly.
>> So then it will allow the handleclick
function to come back into the call stack.
>> Perfect, or yeah, be called back
into JavaScript to be executed on
the call stack because the event
loop was checking very quickly.
Sorry, yeah, keep going, sorry.
[LAUGH]
>> And
then it's gone from the callback queue.
>> Right, right, right, so
gone from the callback queue.
When something gets added to
the call stack by JavaScript,
it automatically gets parens,
which mean only one thing, people.
What's gonna be added to our parens?
Exactly, this is building up suspense,
which means, everybody, a brand new what?
>> Execution context.
>> Machik thinks they're above.
>> There's a very good choir,
I'm like not trying to it.
>> [LAUGH] Which means, okay,
Machik, it creates a brand new?
>> Execution context.
>> Thanks, Machik.
>> [LAUGH]
>> To be fair,
though, that was vaguely problematic, but
I feel that was problematic by me
to there demand you to repeat it.
>> [LAUGH]
>> I don't know, that's actually vaguely.
All right, that's like making sure,
yeah, that's not fair.
Thank you, Machik, you're right,
you have, I don't know.
It starts off as kind of funny and
cute doing it and
then it starts to become problematic and
odd.
All right, not you, me.
All right, so there we go.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Good, all right,
so handleclick, what's the only
thing that it's allowed to do?
Machik, what's the only thing
that it's allowed to do at least?
Well, there are only two things, but
the first of those things allowed to do?
>> Handle the click,
it just sets the post to blanks.
>> Exactly, so in other words,
the only thing it's allowed to do is
change data, right, to change data.
So that's replaced undefined
with an empty string,
maybe I'll clear that fully in a second.
>> And then it calls the data.
>> And then it calls,
exactly, calls that, perfect.
So post is set to an empty string, and
then we call our converter function,
dataToView.
And we create a brand new,
everyone, together.
>> Execution context.
>> Execution context, beautiful,
and that goes on the call stack.
That goes on the call stack.
See, I apologize for that, okay.
Now, jsInput.value, I mean,
I think if UI engineering
can become a bit tedious,
that's no bad thing because
tedious means predictable.
Tedious means I'm running through
the same function on my data change every
single time.
Tedious means not figuring out a complex
flow of changes to data that I haven't
fully tracked in memory.
And a complex flow of changes of view
that do not have corresponding data
tracked in memory based on
a series of handlers being run.
No, change data, only thing that can
change, and then run my dataToView.
I'm calling it dTV, dataToView here.
That is going to set my value, so
post is now an empty string, right?
So Machik, what's its-
>> So it's gonna be an empty string now.
>> Yeah, perfect, exactly, thank you.
Empty string, which is now gonna
be set as the value on our input.
I'm sorry I keep switching my
single quotes and double quotes,
it's just trying to
make sure they show up.
There you go, that's an excuse.
And that now is showing up on the page
itself cuz that bit's automatic,
the render step there is automatic.
Perfect and we are, but we are going
to be a bit over the top here, right?
Go ahead, Machik.
>> We forgot the other part last time,
[LAUGH] I think.
>> I'm just saying the text content
was not set, I mean, we didn't do.
>> We did, undefined.
>> On the view.
>> Okay,
I guess it's an empty string, right?
Yeah, okay, but
we don't see an empty string.
>> We didn't have the, actually the-
>> We wrote dataToView has a track of all,
exactly, of all of the information.
It's not directly displaying
whatever the data is,
it's conditional on that data determining,
exactly.
In this case, we basically said text
context will be post, which is undefined,
which is, helpfully, text content
turns that into an empty string.
And therefore, we really don't have
any text here, so the div stays empty.
And that's good, that's what we want.
So now, this time, though, well,
more or less the same, I guess.
>> Yeah, it's empty still.
Exactly, jsDiv., what matters is we
can track it all through one function.
So data is now that, I should probably
be consistent with my quotes there.
And that is what's set as the div's text.
textContent set on jsDiv,
the access object sets its text to
an empty string and nothing shows up.
Beautiful, okay, now, our handleclick
function is finished executing.
It's popped off the call stack,
let's do a little
clear up at our execution context,
or close up.
We know that our callback
queue is already empty, and
we're getting the hang of this now,
aren't we?
There it is, and
now more user action comes.
They clicked so they could start writing.
And they start writing what?
They start writing, typing, sorry.
It's gotta be our friend y, there we are.
And that is going to show
up in the input field, and
it's gonna immediately show up on our DOM,
in that value position.
If we're saying that everything the user
sees needs to depend on underlying data,
[SOUND] it ain't pretty that there's
data here, there's data here.
By the way, the CSS model of the page also
can have data that determines what shows
up on the page.
In a sense, our HTML code was
an initial population of data,
only one time display of data, but it was.
Again, it's like, how do we have four
different places to store data that can
then determine what the user sees?
And at least three out of
four of them are changeable.
Well, that's why we're
gonna be really restrictive
if we're actually gonna have JavaScript
as our single source of data.
To the point that I won't even see this as
necessarily data so much as a submission.
Because when that input is filled in,
it's gonna trigger
the handleInput function to be
passed to the callback queue.
Where, Ian, can you help me out?
We're like one minute and one millisecond.
And handleInput cuz the user
has typed their name, Y.
handleInput has now been
added to the callback queue,
what's gonna happen in JavaScript?
>> Well, since it's in the callback queue,
we're gonna see, I mean,
with the event loop, we're gonna make
sure that nothing is in the call stack.
>> Yeah.
>> Well, except for the global function.
And then we're gonna execute,
do we handle the input?
Yes, cuz we typed Y.
>> Right, exactly.
>> We are going to assign
our piece of data post.
>> Hold on, so hold on, we're gonna
execute handleInput, so it's a new.
Okay, you can do this,
Ian, it's a new what?
>> Okay, it's a new execution context.
>> Yes, beautiful.
>> [LAUGH]
>> Exactly, brand new execution context.
Exactly, well done, exactly.
Into it we go and you're right,
the only thing we can do is update data.
>> Yes.
>> Tell me about it.
>> So we are going to take
the piece of data called post.
>> Yep, well, the identifier for
a piece of data called post, yep.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah.
>> And then we are going
to assign it to the result
of accessing the value
property of jsInput,
but jsInput is gonna be a-
>> Accessor object.
>> An accessor object that we got cuz
we can't just get stuff from the DOM.
>> Yeah, because there's C++ objects.
It's beautiful, Ian, it's wonderful.
>> So we're reading it from the DOM
through that accessor object to get
the value of the jsInput.
>> Yes.
>> Assign post to that value.
>> Yes, so we grab it, and actually,
it's gonna turn into a JavaScript
string that we end up assigning there.
Note, I'm now changing from green,
[COUGH] which was a user submission,
I'm gonna call it,
into saving it in white.
It's a JavaScript string, there it is.
That's great and then we've changed data.
It's all we did, and so Ian,
what are we now going to call?
>> We're gonna call our
function dataToView.
>> dataToView converter,
brand new execution context.
I call it a converter function, right,
because it converts our
data into our view.
Now, it might do it with a bunch of
conditionals to determine exactly
what to display, but its input is
JavaScript data and its output is view.
It's content the user sees
into dataToView convert we go.
And John, if you don't mind,
over to you, we are going to evaluate?
>> jsInput.value set, etc., and
we will check if post equals undefined.
And because it's not equal to undefined,
we will get post's value and
set input's value to post's value.
>> In the DOM, exactly, and
that is the string what?
>> Y.
>> Y, and look, people,
I've changed it to white.
It is derived directly
from our JavaScript data.
That only would have shown
us the green for a second.
Then that's gonna, of course,
mean that what the user sees,
they think it's just what they typed.
No, well,
they're not to be trusted with that.
>> [LAUGH]
>> They have to trust us to refill it with
actual data from JavaScript.
And then take it away, John.
>> And then we will call jsDiv's
setter method textContent.
>> Yeah, they call it property, but
I'm with you, method or prop, both work.
But yeah, exactly.
>> textContent and we will set it to post.
>> Yeah, which is?
>> That equals to Y.
>> And that-
>> Will go to DOM and set.
>> Beautiful, the execution context
closed, they're popped off the call stack.
And look at that, people,
we have a full user interface
with a highly restrictive but
honestly liberating mental, well,
model, I don't say mental model.
Design pattern of everything the user can
possibly see is an output
of JavaScript data.
We have one function that in
any change to date, any change,
any action from the user or inaction, the
initial before the user takes any action.
Any action, the user will only
be allowed to affect change
on JavaScript data, nowhere else.
And then we have one function,
you could even call a description.
They use these funny terms that sound
very profound and obscure, but I get it,
it's a description,
it describes what's gonna show up.
In fact, based on that data,
we have a full description of the content,
not of the actual boxes,
that might come tomorrow, but
a full description of the content
that's gonna show on the page.
All within one function, it's beautiful.
And well, I don't know,
good job, everybody.
So let's see what it says.
Restrict every change to view to be via,
1, an update of our data, and 2,
a run of a single dataToView
convertor function.
Not make different changes in
every different condition,
every different action by the user, but
one function that pipes the change of
data through to the entire dependent.
Or not dependent,
we haven't made that restriction yet, but
the output being the view
that the user sees.
Just one approach, but immensely popular,
and it tees us up, we're gonna see for
semivisual coding with
what I call a visual DOM.
Something along the lines of, I have
everything in JavaScript now that I need
if I wanted to actually map out exactly
what's gonna show up on the C++ DOM.
Because the only things that are gonna
show up here, well, not quite yet, right?
Because right now, I've got inputs,
and divs, and stuff like that.
With a bit more movement in terms
of defining what's gonna show up,
here in JavaScript first, I could
have in JavaScript a full description
of what's gonna show up on the page
based on every single piece of data.
Based on every change,
I can see it first in JavaScript.
That's because nothing shows
up here that wasn't determined
by the underlying data and conversion
from that data through to the view.
Not like one-off handlers
that change the data,
no data left on here from the user's
action that then doesn't get, no.
Anything from the user is
a submission to underlying data here.
A pinpoint submission,
as Machik rightly said,
and then it's going to run the one
way dataToView conversion.
Well, if we know that, maybe we could even
intercede that with a full layout of what
that page is gonna look like.
So that within Java we have
a full map of what the page
is gonna end up looking like.
Which given that we don't have that access
to that full map with all its state,
we can't just call to log that.
We need to make getter calls to get all
that information every single time.
It would be pretty nice to have a full
map of it within JavaScript first.
It could also potentially allow us
hand in hand with that to optimize.
You notice here we wiped all the data?
For our purposes of reasoning, amazing,
wiped and reloaded all the data.
Do we really need to do that every
single time, a thousand elements,
we gotta really wipe all
the data every time and re?
Could it be that if we could map out in
JavaScript all the data as it's gonna be
displayed and
then have an algorithm, clever code,
as it's gonna be pretty basic?
Look back at the previous map of
the entire contents that are gonna
be displayed and see what actually
changed and only make those changes.
That could be quite a powerful move for
us.